Being an Act to make provision for a new Constitution of ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS (AYA), and for connected purposes


CHAPTER I

QUESTION AND ANSWER
1. What is the purpose of this constitution?
Ans = To run the organization.
2. Who formed this organization
Ans = Abdullah Sinneh Conteh
3. What do the two hands of the logo represent.
Ans = The Youth
4. What's the meaning of the two hands of the logo
Ans = togetherness/ united/ supportive
5. What do the one hand with the pen of the logo represent?
Ans = The President
6. What do the map of logo represent
Ans = The Country
7. What do the book of the logo represent
Ans = Education
8. Who designed the logo of the organization
Ans = Abdullah Sinneh Conteh
9. Who is the first executive president?
Ans
10. An important advantage of creating this organization?
Ans = Is to bring all  Sierra Leonean youth in one voice to build this nation.
11. Who wrote this constitution
Ans = Abdullah Sinneh Conteh.
12. The fundamental assumption on which the idea of this organization based is
Ans = to improve the youth stability
CHAPTER 2
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE ORGANIZATION POLICY.
1. All members, shall promote national integration and unity and discourage discrimination on the grounds of place of origin, circumstance of birth, sex, religion, status, ethnic or linguistic association.
2. All members, should secure full rights of residence for every citizen in all parts of the country.
3. All members, shall protect and defend the liberty of the individual, enforce the rule of law of the state and ensure the efficient functioning of Government services.
4. All members, shall take all steps to eradicate all corrupt members and the abuse of power/law.
5. All members, shall within the context of the ideas and objectives of the organization.
6. Any member, without discrimination on any grounds whatsoever, shall have the opportunity for securing adequate means of livelihood as well as adequate opportunities to secure any position in the organization.
CHAPTER 3
DUTIES OF MEMBERS IN THE ORGANIZATION
1. The exercise and enjoyment of rights and freedoms is inseparable from the performance of duties and obligations, and accordingly, it shall be the duty of every Member in the organization.
2. To  promote the prestige and good name of the organization and the country as a whole respect the symbols of the organization and the country;
3. To uphold and defend this Constitution and the law;
4. To foster national unity and live in harmony with others;
5. To respect the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of others, and generally to refrain from doing acts detrimental to the welfare of other member/non member.
6. To protect and preserve the organization and public property and expose and combat misuse and waste of public and the organization funds and property.
7. To defend the organization and render national service when necessary
8. To co-operate with lawful agencies in the maintenance of law and order;
9. (a)Subject to clause (b) of this article
(a) All members shall take steps to encourage the integration of appropriate customary values into the fabric of national life through formal and informal education and the conscious introduction of cultural dimensions to relevant aspects of the organization planning.
(b) All members shall ensure that appropriate customary and cultural values are adapted and developed as an integral part of the growing needs of the society as a whole; and in particular that traditional practices which are injurious to the health and well-being of the person of the person are not acceptable.
10. To promote positive life style by Laying the foundations for a democratic and open society in which government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally protected by law;
11. To heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic values, social justice and fundamental human rights.
12. All members shall take steps to encourage non members to participate in taking part of our events that deals with inspiring and empowering.
13 It compulsory  for members to buy forms and ID card. 
CHAPTER 4
OBJECTIVES / AIMS OF THE ORGANIZATION
ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS is a youth led advocacy organization, establish to promote positive and change negative life style of the youth, ongoing school pupils and also our homes and communities.
Firstly understand the meaning and know the definition of the organization ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS(AYA)
Meaning of the organization.
ACTIVE = A person that have an xxx energy to do a particular work . OR A person that have the power or quality to make a change.
YOUTH = From infancy age to adult age.
Adult age is an age of taking a decisions of your own.
AMBASSADOR = Representative, a person that represent a set of group.
The definition of the organization.
ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS simply defined as taking a decision of improving yourself and others.
OUR MOTTO IS: SERVE NOW AND PLAY LATTER
All articles (a) subject to clause(b)
( a )
1. To Change the fixed Mindset to Growth Mindset of every Sierra Leonean.
2. To Inspire and empowering
3. To support each other.
4. To Promote positivity in our homes, schools, towns and communities.
5. To be united and speak in one voice
6. To Change the perspective of our politicians.
7. To foster standard leaving of every Sierra Leonean.
8. To learn leadership quality
9. To render National services
( b )
Being in growth mindset we can be inspired
Being inspired we can be empowered
Being empowered we can be supportive
Being supportive we can promote positivity
Being positivity we can be united
Being united we can speak in one voice
Being in one voice we can change the perspective of our politicians
Being changed the perspective of our politicians we can foster standard leaving.
Being in foster leaving we can rendered National services.
CHAPTER 5
THE EXECUTIVE POLICY
1. Declaration of position
You most associate with the grassroots members and non members
You most be ineligible to major activities and meetings
You most comply with the rules and regulations of this constitution
You most be politically free
2. All branch shall have an executive and all those branch executives shall meet with the general board executive every three months.
3. All the executive authority of the organization shall extend to the  execution and maintenance of this Constitution and all laws made under or continued in force by this Constitution.
4. All positions, presidents and vice presidents shall be elected within the organization members.
5. The Position of the CEO is Supreme to all other positions.
6. Where the President and the Vice - President are both unable to perform the functions of the President,   the ((CEO) Chief Executive Officer) of the organization shall perform those functions until the President or the Vice - President is able to perform those functions or a new President assumes office,  as the  case may be.
7. All the executive shall ensure the proper control and upbringing the organization and members and non members.
8.  All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in the executive of the organization, which shall consist of all branch Representatives.
9. All branch executive govern by the board executive.
10. All position go through electoral process.
11. The executive members are responsible to make laws in this organization.
12. Each branch executives have the right to make their own laws and those laws most finalize by the general executive.
13. Executive member must be free from political party.
14. The general president & vice president supreme to all branch Presidents & vice presidents
15. All branch Presidents & vice presidents are part of the general executive board.
16. DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENTS & VICE PRESIDENTS
Receive information about changes, opportunities and problems that the Organization may face.
Represent the Organization in public through speeches and reports.
Identify new ideas and seek innovative methods to improve the performance of the Organization.
Resolve conflicts among members
Create activities in which members & non members can show their ability.
Play a role influencing non members to become members
The president has the right to appoint temporarily for a vacant position


SCHEDULE
THE OATH OF THE PRESIDENT

I,...................................................................................... having been elected to the high office of President of the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS do (in the name of the Almighty God swear) (solemnly affirm) that I will be faithful and true to the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS that I will at all times preserve, protect and defend the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS; and that I dedicate myself to the service and well-being of members of the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS and to do right to all manner of persons.

I further (solemnly swear) (solemnly affirm) that should I at any time break this oath of office I shall submit myself to the laws of the Organization and you ooh God will not forgiven me I shall suffer the penalty for it. (So help me God).

To be administered by the CEO Chief Executive Officer.

OATH OF THE VICE PRESIDENT

I,...................................................................................... having been elected to the high office of Vice President of the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS do (in the name of the Almighty God swear) (solemnly affirm) that I will be faithful and true to the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS that I will at all times preserve, protect and defend the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS; and that I dedicate myself to the service and well-being of members of the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS and to do right to all manner of persons.
I further (solemnly swear) (solemnly affirm) that should I at any time break this oath of office I shall submit myself to the laws of the Organization and you ooh God will not forgiven me I shall suffer the penalty for it. (So help me God).
To be administered by the CEO Chief Executive Officer.
OATH OF THE EXECUTIVE'S
I,............................................................................................ having been appointed a member of the executive do (in the name of the Almighty God swear) (solemnly affirm) that I will not directly or indirectly reveal such matters as shall be debated in the executive and committed to my secrecy; and that I will uphold, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS. (So help me God).
To be sworn before the President

OATH OF MEMBERS
I,.............................................................................................. do (solemnly swear in the name of the Almighty God) (solemnly affirm) that I will faithfully and conscientiously perform my duties as a member of the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS and uphold, preserve, protect and defend the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS. (So help me God).

To be sworn before the President.

OATH OF OTHER POSITIONS
I,...................................................................................... Have been elected to the office of..................... do (in the name of the Almighty God swear) (solemnly affirm) that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS as by law established; that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of the organization; and that I will preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the organization AYA ACTIVE YOUTH AMBASSADORS. (So help me God).
be sworn before the President, the Chief executive officer CEO or such other person as the President may designate.

